README.md, before:

# nba-drafting
Model and UI for DraftKing's NBA Daily Lineup Challenge.

# Problem Statement:
Our goal is to try and produce a modeling tool that outperforms an average DraftKings player in picking lineups for the Classic NBA daily Lineup Challenge. Every player drafts a **lineup** using $50,000, to score the most fantasy points (**FPT**).

## Plan of Action:

### 1. Gather Data
First we want to gather information that will help us set goals and benchmark our model's performance. We need to gather performance that will help us gauge our performance. Namely we want to learn:
* The average drafter's performance (FP) in a contest
* The average score (FP) a drafter's lineup must achieve in order to receive a payout
* The average 1st place score (FP) in a contest

Second, we will need to gather the actual data for our model. We need to determine what information significantly impacts a player's value in a fantasy lineup. This will be a mix of individual player statistics, various team statistics, and the salary DraftKing assigns to the player.

##### Individual
* Average FPT
* Injury-status
* Individual matchup
* DraftKings Salary

##### Team
* Pace
* Opposing Team Defense
* Playing back-to-back


### 2. Create a Model to Evaluate Players
The critical key problem we must solve is how to accurately rate and evaluate players. Our model should score players such that those with the highest potential to exceed there average FPT, with reasonable salaries, are scored highly. We need to take into account potential injuries that may shift a lineup on a given night, potential matchups between players that may be particularly favorable for one side, and of course, player and team statistics.


### 3. Devise Methodology for Picking Optimal Lineup
This seems to be a variant of the knapsack problem. We want to create a lineup that maximizes total value, given the following constraints:
1. Total salary of no more than $50,000
2. exactly 8 players
  * 1 player at each traditional position
  * An additional guard, forward, and utility player
  
It is possible this problem has a knapsack-variant approach. It's possible that there is a linear programming solution. Certain online resources suggest that finding the most optimal lineup is not important - given the variance in the performance of players, it is possible that finding a slightly sub-optimal lineup is just as good.

### 4. Create Friendly User Interface (UI)
Finally, we would like to create a friendly UI that will be easy to use everyday. Rather than reading output in terminal, we would like to produce output in a readable and easy to use web format.


## Data Gathered:

### On Typical Draftking's Contests:

DraftKings contests cary in contest size, number of entries (if multiple entries are allowed), number of payouts, and total prize money paid out. DraftKings has contests of many pay-out formats. These formats include winner-take-all, tiered payouts, and the double up format.

When examining the double-up format, it appears that in these contests, the top 43% of entries double-up.

Commit message:

added todo and done sections to readme

README.md, after:

# nba-drafting
Model and UI for DraftKing's NBA Daily Lineup Challenge.

# Problem Statement:
Our goal is to try and produce a modeling tool that outperforms an average DraftKings player in picking lineups for the Classic NBA daily Lineup Challenge. Every player drafts a **lineup** using $50,000, to score the most fantasy points (**FPT**).



# Todo:
1. transfer from html -> BS object
2. compare teams total fantasy points to their roster's fantasy costs
3.


# Done:
1. write code for getting html from url

## Notes ~~~~
## Plan of Action:

### 1. Gather Data
First we want to gather information that will help us set goals and benchmark our model's performance. We need to gather performance that will help us gauge our performance. Namely we want to learn:
* The average drafter's performance (FP) in a contest
* The average score (FP) a drafter's lineup must achieve in order to receive a payout
* The average 1st place score (FP) in a contest

Second, we will need to gather the actual data for our model. We need to determine what information significantly impacts a player's value in a fantasy lineup. This will be a mix of individual player statistics, various team statistics, and the salary DraftKing assigns to the player.

##### Individual
* Average FPT
* Injury-status
* Individual matchup
* DraftKings Salary

##### Team
* Pace
* Opposing Team Defense
* Playing back-to-back


### 2. Create a Model to Evaluate Players
The critical key problem we must solve is how to accurately rate and evaluate players. Our model should score players such that those with the highest potential to exceed there average FPT, with reasonable salaries, are scored highly. We need to take into account potential injuries that may shift a lineup on a given night, potential matchups between players that may be particularly favorable for one side, and of course, player and team statistics.


### 3. Devise Methodology for Picking Optimal Lineup
This seems to be a variant of the knapsack problem. We want to create a lineup that maximizes total value, given the following constraints:
1. Total salary of no more than $50,000
2. exactly 8 players
  * 1 player at each traditional position
  * An additional guard, forward, and utility player
  
It is possible this problem has a knapsack-variant approach. It's possible that there is a linear programming solution. Certain online resources suggest that finding the most optimal lineup is not important - given the variance in the performance of players, it is possible that finding a slightly sub-optimal lineup is just as good.

### 4. Create Friendly User Interface (UI)
Finally, we would like to create a friendly UI that will be easy to use everyday. Rather than reading output in terminal, we would like to produce output in a readable and easy to use web format.
